=== PAGE 1 ===
MCQ Questions Preliminary examination
All of these questions are based on what people remembered after exams SO IT CAN NOT BE RELIED ON 
FULLY 100% but it is the only way to get an idea about the subjects, matters and topics you would be 
asked about. Please add whatever you can after the exam ends and keep this sample in the hands of anyone 
who is sitting the exam.THANKS to all who have contributed to this and to all who will continue this!!!
Good Luck..
1.  For lower premolars, the purpose of inclining the handpiece lingually is to,
A. Avoid buccal pulp horn
B. Avoid lingual pulp horn
C. Remove unsupported enamel 
D. Conserve lingual dentine
2.  For an amalgam Restoration of weakened cusp you should,
A. reduce cusp by 2mm on a flat base for more resistance
B. reduce cusp by 2mm following the outline of the cusp
C. reduce 2mm for retention form
3.  Before filling a class V abrasion cavity with GIC you should,
A. Clean with pumice, rubber cup, water and weak acid
B. Dry the cavity thoroughly before doing anything
C. Acid itch cavity then dry thoroughly 
4.  Which of the following statement about the defective margins of amalgam 
restoration is true?
A. The larger the breakdown, the greater the chance of decay.
5.  The retention Pin in an amalgam restoration should be placed,
A. Parallel to the outer wall
B. Parallel to the long axis of tooth 
6.  The most common cause of failure of the IDN “Inferior Dental Nerve” block is,
A. Injecting too low
B. Injecting too high
7.  Which one of the following are not used in water fluoridation: 
A. SnF2
B. 1.23% APF
C. H2SiF2
=== PAGE 2 ===
D. CaSiF2
E. 8% Stannous fluoride
8.  The best way to clean cavity before the placement of GIC is,
A. H2O2
B. Phosphoric Acid
C. Polyacrylic acid
9.  The most mineralised part of dentine is,
A. Peritubular dentine
10. A 45 year old patient awoke with swollen face, puffiness around the eyes, and 
oedema of the upper lip with redness and dryness. When he went to bed he had the 
swelling, pain or dental complaints. Examination shows several deep silicate 
restorations in the anterior teeth but examination is negative for caries, thermal  
tests, percussion, palpation, pain, and periapical area of rarefaction. The patient’s 
temperature is normal. The day before he had a series of gastrointestinal x-rays at 
the local hospital and was given a clean bill of health. The condition is:
A. Acute periapical abscess
B. Angioneurotic oedema
C. Infectious mononucleosis
D. Acute maxillary sinusitis
E. Acute apical periodontitis 
11. Internal resorption is,
A. Radiolucency over unaltered canal
B. Usually in a response to trauma
C. Radiopacity over unaltered canal
12. On replantation of an avulsed tooth could see,
A. Surface resorption, external resorption
B. Internal resorption
C. Inflammatory resorption
D. Replacement resorption
E. A, C and D
F. All of the above
13. The percentage of total dentine surface dentinal tubules make in 0.5mm away from 
pulp is,
A. 20%
=== PAGE 3 ===
B. 50%
14. The junction between primary and secondary dentine is,
A. A reversal line
B. Sharp curvature
C. A resting line
D. A reduction in the number of tubules
15. What is the correct sequence of events
A. Differentiation of odontoblast, elongation of enamel epithelium, dentine formation 
then enamel formation.
B. Differentiation of odontoblast, dentine formation then enamel formation, elongation 
of enamel epithelium.
C. Elongation of enamel epithelium, differentiation of odontoblast, dentine formation 
then enamel formation.
16. What is the sequence from superficial to the deepest in dentine caries?
A. Zone of bacterial penetration, demineralisation, sclerosis, reparative dentine 
B. Zone of bacterial penetration, reparative dentine, demineralisation, sclerosis. 
C. Zone of bacterial penetration, sclerosis, reparative dentine, demineralisation.
17. The nerve supply of the pulp is composed of which type of nerve fibres?
A. Afferent & sympathetic
18. In which direction does the palatal root of the upper first molar usually curve 
towards?
A. Facial / buccal/
B. Lingual
C. Mesial
D. Distal 
19. What is the common appearance of vertical tooth fracture?
A. Perio abscess like appearance 
B. Displacement of fragments
20. Which of the following would be ONE possible indication for indirect pulp 
capping?
A. Where any further excavation of dentine would result in pulp exposure.
B. Removal of caries has exposed the pulp
=== PAGE 4 ===
C. When carious lesion has just penetrated DEJ
21. Following trauma to tooth, the next day there was no response to pulp tests you 
should?
A. Review again later
B. Start endodontic treatment
C. Extraction of tooth
22. What is the main purpose of performing pulp test on a recently traumatised tooth?
A. Obtain baseline response
B. Obtain accurate indication about pulp vitality
23. What is the main function of EDTA in endodontics?
A. Decalcification of dentine
B. Cleaning debris from root canal
24. Which is NOT TRUE in relation to the prescription of 5mg or 10mg of diazepam 
for sedation?
A. Patient commonly complain of post operative headache
B. An acceptable level of anxiolytic action is obtained when the drug is given one hour 
preoperatively
C. There is a profound amnesic action and no side affects
D. Active metabolites can give a level of sedation up to 8 hours post operatively
E. As Benzodiazepine the action can be reversed with Flumazepil
25. Which of the following is TRUE in regards to high risk patient?
A. 0.1ml of blood from Hepatitis B carrier is less infective than 0.1ml of blood from 
HIV patient
B. 0.1ml of blood from Hepatitis B carrier is more infective than 0.1ml of blood from 
HIV patient
C. Level of virus are similar in the blood and saliva of HIV patient
D. Level of virus in the saliva is not significant for Hepatitis B patient
E. The presence of Hepatitis B core Antigen in the blood means that active disease is not 
present
26. Your employer in an attempt to update office sterilization procedures; what would 
you recommend as the BEST method to verify that sterilization has occurred:**
A. Use spore test daily
B. Use indicator strips in each load and colour change tape on each package
C. Use indicator strips daily and spore test weekly
=== PAGE 5 ===
D. Use colour change tape daily and spore test monthly
E. Use colour change tape in each load and spore tests weekly
27. A 65 year old woman arrived for dental therapy. The answered questionnaire 
shows that she is suffering from severe cirrhosis. The problem that can be 
anticipated in the routine dental therapy is:
A. Extreme susceptibility to pain
B. Tendency towards prolonged haemorrhage
C. Recurring oral infection
D. Increased tendency to syncope
E. Difficulty in achieving adequate local anaesthesia
28. Loss of sensation in the lower lip may be produced by,
A. Bell’s palsy
B. Traumatic bone cyst 
C. Trigeminal neuralgia
D. Fracture in the mandible first molar region
E. Ludwig’s angina
29. Patient received heavy blow to the right body of the mandible sustaining a fracture 
there. You should suspect a second fracture is most likely to be present in,
A. Symphysis  region
B. Left body of the mandible
C. Left sub-condylar region
D. Right sub-condylar region
E. sub-condylar region
30. Signs and symptoms that commonly suggest cardiac failure in a patient being 
assessed for oral surgery are,
A. Elevated temperature and nausea
B. Palpitations and malaise
C. Ankle oedema and dyspnoea
D. Erythema and pain
E. Pallor and tremor 
31. A cyst at the apex of an upper central incisor measuring 1 cm in diameter is 
visualized in radiograph and confirmed by aspiration biopsy; which method of 
treatment would you consider?**
A. Extraction of the central incisor and retrieving the cyst through the socket
B. Exteriorizing the cyst through the buccal bone and mucosa
=== PAGE 6 ===
C. Making a mucoperiosteal flap and removing the cyst through an opening made in the 
alveolar bone, followed by tooth removal.
D.  Making a mucoperiosteal flap and removing the cyst through an opening made in the 
alveolar bone, followed by endodontic treatment.
E. Routine orthograde endodontic treatment followed by observation.
32. A persistent oroantral fistula for a 12 weeks period following the extraction of a 
maxillary first permanent molar is best treated by,
A. Further review and reassurance since it will most probably heal spontaneously
B. Antibiotic therapy and nasal decongestants
C. Curettage and dressing of the defect
D. Excision of the fistula and surgical closure
E. Maxillary antral wash out and nasal antrostomy.
33. The most significant finding in clinical evaluation of parotid mass may be 
accompanying,
A. Lympha adenopathy
B. Nodular consistency
C. Facial paralysis
D. Slow progressive enlargement 
E. Xerostomia
34. As far as surgical removal of wisdom teeth is concerned which of the following is 
true?**
A. Prophylactic prescription of antibiotic reduces dramatically the chances of infection
B. Raising a lingual flap will increases the incidence of neurapraxia but will reduce the 
incidence of neurotmesis with respect to the lingual nerve
C. Prophylactic prescription of dexamethasone will dramatically reduces post operative 
swelling 
D. Inferior dental nerve injury is unlikely since the nerve passes medial to the wisdom 
tooth root
E. The use of vasoconstrictors in local anaesthetics will increase the chances of 
infection.
35. Endogenous morphine like substance which can control pain is known as,**
A. Bradykinins
B. Peptides
C. Prostaglandins
D. Serotonins
E. Enkephalins
=== PAGE 7 ===
36. Platelets play an important role in haemostasis; which of the following describes 
this role?
A. They convert fibrinogen to fibrin
B. They agglutinate and plug small, ruptured vessels
C. They initiate fibrinolysis in thrombosis
D. They supply fibrin stabilizing factors
E. They supply proconvertin for thromboplastin activation 
37. Suppuration is mainly the result of the combined action of four factors; which of 
the following is not one of these factors?
A. Necrosis
B. Presence of lymphocytes
C. Collection of neutrophils
D. Accumulation of tissue fluid
E. Autolysis by proteolytic enzymes
38. Which of the following lesions CANNOT BE classified as an intra-epithelial 
lesion?**
A. Herpes simplex infections
B. Pemphigus vulgaris
C. Herpangina 
D. Lichen planus
E. Hand, foot and mouth disease
39. In regards to HIV infection, which of the following is the earliest finding?
A. Kaposi sarcoma on the palate
B. Reduced haemoglobin
C. Infection with pneumocystic carinii
D. Reduction in white cells count
E. B cell lymphoma
40. Which of the following is NOT CHARACTERISTIC of trigeminal neuralgia?**
A. The pain usually last for few seconds up to a minute in the early stages of the disease
B. The pain is usually unilateral
C. Patient characteristically have sites on the skin that when stimulated precipitate an 
attack of pain
D. An attack of pain is usually preceded by sweating in the region of the forehead
E. It is a paroxysmal in nature and may respond to the treatment  with Carbamazepine
41. Benign migratory glossitis or Geographic Tongue, manifests itself in the oral cavity 
as,
=== PAGE 8 ===
A. Irregularly outlined areas of hyperkeratosis of the dorsal surface of the tongue
B. Furrows outlined the dorsal surface radiating out from a central groove in the centre 
of the tongue
C. Loss (atrophy) of filiform papillae in multiple irregularly outlined areas
D. Irregularly outlined erythematous area of hyper trophic fungiform
E. A fibrinous exudate on the dorsal surface
F. Grooves (fissures) radiating from a central fissure
G. Irregular area in the midline of the tongue
42. Which one of the following is true about oral hairy leukoplakia?
A. Associated with HIV virus infection and is commonly seen on the dorsal of the 
tongue
B. Associated with HIV virus infection and is commonly seen on the lateral side of the 
tongue
C. Usually caused by Candida species 
D. Always associated with trauma to the lateral side of the tongue
E. Always associated with pernicious anaemia
43. Which of the following have a tendency to recur if not treated?
A. Giant cell granuloma
B. Lipoma
C. Fibrous epulis
D. Haematoma
E. Pulp polyps
44. Basal cell carcinoma is characterised by,
A. Rapid growth and metastasis
B. Local cutaneous invasion
C. Inability to invade bone
D. Poor prognosis
E. Radiation resistance
F. Can not metastasise to the bone
45. Carcinoma of the tongue has a predilection for which of the following sites?**
A. Lateral border anteriorly
B. Anterior dorsal surface
C. Posterior dorsal surface
D. Lateral border posteriorly
E. No preferred location
=== PAGE 9 ===
46. A patient presents complaining of a stomach upset 48 hours after starting a course 
of antibiotic for oral infection, this is an example of,
A. Type I allergic reaction
B. Nervous disorder
C. Side effect of the drug
D. Type IV hypersensitivity reaction
E. Pyloric stenosis 
47. Trichloroacetic acid, a strong acid, has been used by dentists for chemical cautery 
of hypertrophic tissue and aphthous ulcers; its mechanism of action is,
A. Thermodynamic action
B. Activation of tissue enzymes
C. Osmotic pressure
D. Protein precipitation PPT
E. Neutralization
48. Which of the following adverse reaction of oral contraceptives is the most common 
and the most serious
A. Hypotension
B. Hepatotoxicity
C. Uterine neoplasia
D. Thromboembolism disorder
E. Decreased resistance to infection
49. A patient who has been taking quantities of aspirin might show increased post 
operative bleeding because aspirin inhibits:**
A. Synthesis of thromboxane A2 and prevents platelet aggregation
B. Synthesis of prostacyclin and prevents platelet aggregation
C. Synthesis of prostaglandin and prevents production of blood platelets
D.  Thrombin and prevents formation of the fibrin network
E. Increase the absorption of vitamin K and prevents synthesis of blood clotting factors
50. A patient who recently had a calculus removed from the kidney presented with 
radiolucent area in the left maxilla with clinical evidence of swelling. The disease 
that you would immediately suggest is,
A. Diabetes
B. Thyrotoxicosis
C. Hyperparathyroidism
D. Osteoporosis
E. Adrenal insufficiency
=== PAGE 10 ===
51. Typical features of Down’s syndrome (Mongolism) do not include:
A. A multiple immunodeficiencies
B. Sever caries but minimal periodontal disease
C. Susceptibility to infections
D. Multiple missing teeth and malocclusion
E. Hepatitis B carriage in institutionalised patients
52. The patient whom you are about to treat, states that he has Von Willebrand’s 
disease. Which one of the following preoperative haematological analyses may 
reflect this disease:
A. Bleeding time and factor VIII level
B. Bleeding time and factor IX level
C. Bleeding time and factor X level
D. Platelet count 
E. Thromboplastin generation time
53. A 22 year old woman has acute gingival hypertrophy, spontaneous bleeding from 
the gingiva and complains of weakness and anorexia. Her blood analysis was as 
follows: HB=12gm, Neutrophils=90%, Monocytes=1%, Platelets=250000, 
WBC=100000, Lymphocytes=9%, Eosinophils=0%
The most likely diagnosis is:
A. Myelogenous leukaemia
B.  Infectious mononucleosis /glandular fever/
C. Thrombocytopenic purpura
D. Gingivitis of local aetiological origin
E. Pernicious anaemia /Vitamin B12 deficiency/
54. The tonsillar lymph node is situated at the level of,
A. Angle of the mandible
B. C6 vertebrae
C. Jugulodigastric crossing 
D. Clavicle
E. Jugulo-omohyoid crossing
55. Exposure of the patient to ionising radiation when taking a radiograph is NOT 
REDUCED by:
A. The use of fast film
B. The addition of filtration
C. Collimation of the beam
D. The use of an open and lead lined cone
E. Decreasing the kilovoltage KvP
=== PAGE 11 ===
56. X-ray films have an emulsion on one or both side of a support material. The 
emulsion contains particles of,
A. Silver nitrate crystal
B. Metallic silver in gelatine
C. Silver bromide in gelatine
D. Silver nitrate in gelatine
E. Potassium bromide in gelatine
57. The inverse Square Law is concerned with intensity of radiation using type D film 
of 200mm target to film distance, the exposure time was 0.25s. What would be the 
exposure for the same situation with 400mm target to film distance?
A. 0.5s
B. 1.0s
C. 2.0s
D. 0.25s
E. 0.125s
58. You wish to purchase a dental X ray machine and have the choice between 60kVp 
and 70kVp machines. With single change from 60kVp to 70kVp what would the 
approximate affects on exposure time?
A. No effect
B. Half the time
C. Double
D. Quarter
E. Triple the time
59. When no radiation shield is available, the operator should stand out of the primary 
x ray beam and a distance from the patient’s head of at LEAST:
A. 0.5 metres
B. 1 metre
C. 1.5 metres
D. 2 metres
E. 3 metres
60. The obturating material of choice for primary teeth following complete pulpectomy 
is,
A. Zn phosphate cement and formcresol combination paste
B. Quick setting hydroxide cement
C. Zinc oxide and eugenol cement
D. Gutta-percha
=== PAGE 12 ===
E. Polycarboxylate cement
61. When primary molars are prepared for stainless steel crowns should the depth for 
reduction of the proximal surface be similar to the depth of the buccal and lingual 
surfaces?
A. Yes; reduction of all wall is similar for best retention
B. No, proximal reduction is greater to allow the crown to pass the contact area
C. No, the buccal surfaces has the greatest reduction to remove the cervical bulge
D. Yes, all undercuts are uniformly removed so that the steel crown can be seated
E. No, because of lateral constriction, the lingual surface needs greatest reduction
62. 8 years old child who has sustained a fracture of maxillary permanent central 
incisor in which 2mm of the pulp is exposed; presents for treatment three hours 
after injury. Which of the following should be considered?
A. Remove the surface 1-2 mm of pulp tissue and place calcium hydroxide
B. Place calcium hydroxide directly on the exposed pulp
C. Pulpotomy using formocresol
D. Pulpectomy and immediate root filling
E. Pulpectomy and apexification
63. Which primary teeth are LEAST affected with the nursing bottle syndrome?
A. Maxillary molars
B. Maxillary and mandibular canines
C. Mandibular incisors
D. Maxillary incisors
E. Mandibular molars
64. Which of the following anomalies occurs during the initiation and proliferation 
stages of tooth development
A. Amelogenesis imperfecta
B. Dentinogenesis imperfecta
C. Enamel hypoplasia
D. Oligodontia
E. Ankylosis
65. Which is the right sequence of the histological stages of tooth development?
A. Initiation, proliferation, histodifferentiation, morphodifferentiation, mineralization 
B. Proliferation, initiation, histodifferentiation, morphodifferentiation, mineralization 
C. Proliferation, morphodifferentiation, histodifferentiation, mineralization 
D. Initiation, proliferation, morphodifferentiation, histodifferentiation, mineralization 
=== PAGE 13 ===
66. A health 6 year old child presents with carious maxillary second primary molar 
with a necrotic pulp. Which treatment would be preferred?
A. Extraction
B. Indirect pulp treatment
C. Pulpotomy
D. Pulpectomy
E. Antibiotic coverage
67. To produce a stable correction of an upper labial segment in lingual crossbite; it is 
essential to:
A. Use fixed appliances
B. Have adequate overbite
C. Treat during growth
D. Use posterior capping
E. Increase vertical dimension
68. Which of the following are typical consequence of dental crowding; assuming no 
primary teeth has been lost prematurely?
A. Overlapping of lower incisors
B. Palatal displacement of upper canines
C. Impaction of 15 and 25 between first premolars and first molars
D. Mesial tipping of 16 and 26
E. Rotation of 16 and 26
69. The lamina dura seen on periapical radiograph as:
A. Usual radiolucency between tooth root and surrounding bone as a thin white line.
B. Cribriform plate of bone making the tooth socket
C. Dense crestal bone consistent with a healthy periodontal status
D.  Pattern of radiopaque lines in supporting alveolar bone
70. Which of the following organisms are pathognomonic of acute necrotic ulcerative 
gingivitis?
A. Spirochaetes and fusobacterium SP 
B. Spirochaetes and eikenella corrodes
C. Polymorphs and lymphocytes
D. Actinobacillus actinomycetes comitans oral capnocytophaga
E. Porphyromonas gingivalis and prevotella intermedia
71. In testing for mobility, which of the following statement is true:
A. Heavy pressure must sometimes be used to test mobility 
=== PAGE 14 ===
B. Only lateral mobility is significant in diagnosis and treatment of chronic 
inflammatory periodontal disease
C. Hyper mobility indicates that the tooth supporting structure have been weakened
D. During the periodontal examination each tooth should be tested individually for hyper 
mobility
E. Reliance on radiograph is essential
72. Which of the following is true regarding gingivosis (Desquamative gingivitis)
A. It is caused by hormononal imbalance
B. Is seen only at or after menopause
C. Is frequently caused by lichen planus
D. Is a variant pregnancy gingivitis
E. Is related to nutritional disturbance
73. The treatment of Localised Juvenile Periodontitis is frequently supplemented with 
tetracycline because flora involved is predominant:
A. Aerobic
B. Strictly anaerobic
C. Facultative or microaerophilic
D. Resistant to other antibiotic
74. The most accurate way to evaluate the effectiveness of root planning is by:
A. Inspect the root surface with an instrument for root smoothness
B. Use air for visual inspection
C. Activate a curette against root surface and listen for a high pitched sound which 
indicates a smooth, hard surface.
D. Evaluate the soft tissue at the end of the appointment for a decrease oedema and 
bleeding
E. Evaluate the soft tissues 10 to 14 days later.
75. Probe pressure at the sulculus of pocket should not be more than enough to:
A. Feel the top of the crestal bone
B. Balance the pressure between fulcrum and grasp
C. Define the location of the apical and the calculus deposit
D. Feel the coronal end of the attached tissues
E. Limit the lateral pressure
76. A curette may be inserted to the level of the attached gingiva with minimal trauma 
to the tissues because of:
A. Has a round base
B. Is easy to sharpen
=== PAGE 15 ===
C. Has rounded cutting edges
D. Provides good tactile sensitivity
E. Has two cutting edges
77. Tetracycline hydrochloride conditioning of root surface in periodontal surgery is 
to:
A. Sterilise the root surface
B. May enhance binding of fibronectin and fibroblast
C. Aids in re-mineralising  the root surface
D. Assist the biding of lamina dura
E. Prevents post operative infections
78. Of all the factors that increase the resistance of teeth to dental caries THE MOST 
EFFECTIVE is,
A. The general nutrition of a child during the period of tooth formation
B. The intake of fluoride during the period of enamel mineralization and maturation
C. Periodic topical fluoride application by dental health care following tooth eruption
D. Sufficient intake of calcium and Vitamin D during the period of enamel 
mineralization and maturation
79. When the enamel of the tooth is exposed to preparation containing high 
concentrations of fluoride; the major reaction is:
A. Sodium fluoride
B. Calcium fluoride
C. Stannous fluoride
D. Fluoroapatite
80. Several approaches have been suggested to increase the fixation of professionally 
applied topical fluoride, which of the following statements IS INCORRECT 
regarding increasing the fixation?
A. Increase concentration of fluoride in solutions
B. Raise the PH of the fluoride solution
C. Increase the exposure time to topical fluoride
D. Pre-treat the enamel with 0.5% phosphoric acid
E. Use NH4F rather than NaF at a lower PH
81. Biopsy is least useful in the diagnosis of,
A. Geographic tongue
B. Aphthous ulcer
C. Cysts
D. Granuloma